---
layout: post
title: Existential Blogging
tags : [jekyll, blog]
---

I've been thinking a lot lately about starting to blog again. In class last week we were discussing the role of research in society. Since I'm starting to get involved in research of my own, I had a tough time with the conversation. The traditional model of research followed by publication sounds odd enough as it is. Throw in the fact that besides other researchers in your field, no one will read it; this whole process seems completely insane. Not to mention that if someone does read it, it'll probably be 2 years out of date by the time it shows up anywhere the general public can access it, if at all.

OK, that's dramatic, but it probably got your attention. Research isn't useless and neither are publications. These things just have different audiences than a blog does. As I think about what the potential outputs of my research will be, I feel that having a blog is almost an obligation to get my observations out into the world. Perhaps that's over stating things a bit, but it's certainly a thought that's gone through my head.

Time to blog then, I guess. I tried taking the simple route by going over to Blogger and creating a blog. But that would have been way be too easy, wouldn't it?

On Friday afternoon I happened to hear about a project called <a href="http://jekyllrb.com">Jekyll</a>. I started reading about it and became very intrigued. Why would anyone ever want to have a static website in 2014? And you can host it on GitHub? This is just completely insane. And it is "blog-aware"? This is just nuts.

As I read into it further, I realized the power of <a href="http://jekyllrb.com">Jekyll</a>. Your site is rendered once, not every time a request comes in. Not only that, but there are no databases or software to run, lock down, or update! Plus the thought of using git to manage my site and GitHub to render and host the content? That was just so geeky that I couldn't say no.

So, here I am with a pretty basic site, a decent-ish theme (using <a href="http://getbootstrap.com">Twitter Bootstrap</a>), and hopefully a framework that I'll actually keep up to date and enhance over time. If history is any indicator, it doesn't look that great for me. But I do think I'm finally in a place in my life that I'm proud of what I have to say and truly hope that others will at least find it somewhat interesting. Ultimately, I think my own self-doubt as to the quality of the content was what always made me <code>rm -rf *</code> my sites before. I'm keeping my fingers crossed that I don't change my mind tomorrow.