---
layout: post
title: Scientific Methods FTW!
tags : [rct, methods]
---

I can't help but think of all my public health friends as I read about randomized controlled trials this morning. <a href="http://www.financialaccess.org/blog/2011/09/revisiting-objections-randomized-control-trials">This post</a> by Timothy Ogden makes a great point in comparing RCT application in the health realm vs development: an "individual drug or treatment goes through dozens of replications over the course of its development". When it comes to the application of RCT to social issues, we just don't have that history to go off of. While Esther Duflo's <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0zvrGiPkVcs">TED talk</a> is compelling, especially considering my predisposition to data and evidence-based solutions, I'm starting to realize the limitations of data.

Every time I start to learn about a new social issue solution, I inevitably fall into the trap of thinking that it will solve all our problems. Microfinance is the solution! So is social entrepreneurship! But wait, it's actually data science! Oh boy. When would you ever hear from a doctor that a pill can be applied to every disease and solve all our problems? Never.

As with public health, the issues we deal with in development are complex. Since most people have taken part in the health system at some point in their life, this understanding seems to be more accessible. Individuals can acknowledge that the body is a complex system and can't be fixed with one simple solution. Switching gears to another area near and dear to me: technology. A computer is yet another complex system that individuals interact with. When that computer starts slowing down, there's only one thing you can do right? Get a new one. Or maybe update anti-virus? As someone who knows a few things about computers, I can tell you that unfortunately it's not that simple.

We can't know everything. It's important for us to be careful when making broad statements about how to solve a problem when we don't fully understand the greater context. As they say, the more you know, the more you realize how much there is to learn. I'm at that point in my development studies. My eyes have finally been opened enough to move beyond looking for the magic bullet. It's not RCTs. It's not data science. Just like the complex system we're trying to affect, each "solution" has its own complexities and interdependencies which we must acknowledge if we are to be successful. Unfortunately when it comes to people's lives, failure is not an option, so we need to get over this magic bullet mentality. I know I'm working on it.